For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and
wondering what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came
running out of the wood--(she considered him to be a footman because he
was in livery: otherwise, judging by his face only, she would have
called him a fish)--and rapped loudly at the door with his knuckles. It
was opened by another footman in livery, with a round face and large
eyes like a frog; and both footmen, Alice noticed, had powdered hair
that curled all over their heads. She felt very curious to know what it
was all about, and crept a little way out of the wood to listen.

The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great letter,
nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to the other,
saying, in a solemn tone, "For the Duchess. An invitation from the
Queen to play croquet." The Frog-Footman repeated, in the same solemn
tone, only changing the order of the words a little, "From the Queen. An
invitation for the Duchess to play croquet."

Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled together.

Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into the wood
for fear of their hearing her; and, when she next peeped out, the
Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the ground near the
door, staring stupidly up into the sky.

Alice went timidly up to the door and knocked.

"There's no use in knocking," said the Footman, "and that for two
reasons. First, because I'm on the same side of the door as you are;
secondly, because they're making such a noise inside, no one could
possibly hear you." And certainly there was a most extraordinary noise
going on within--a constant howling and sneezing, and every now and then
a great crash, as if a dish or kettle had been broken to pieces.

"Please, then," said Alice, "how am I to get in?"

"There might be some sense in your knocking," the Footman went on
without attending to her, "if we had the door between us. For instance,
if you were inside, you might knock, and I could let you out, you
know." He was looking up into the sky all the time he was speaking, and
this Alice thought decidedly uncivil. "But perhaps he can't help it,"
she said to herself: "his eyes are so very nearly at the top of his
head. But at any rate he might answer questions. How am I to get in?"
she repeated aloud.

"I shall sit here," the Footman remarked, "till to-morrow----"

At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate came
skimming out, straight at the Footman's head: it just grazed his nose,
and broke to pieces against one of the trees behind him.

"----or next day, maybe," the Footman continued in the same tone,
exactly as if nothing had happened.

"How am I to get in?" asked Alice again in a louder tone.

"Are you to get in at all?" said the Footman. "That's the first
question, you know."

It was, no doubt: only Alice did not like to be told so. "It's really
dreadful," she muttered to herself, "the way all the creatures argue.
It's enough to drive one crazy!"

The Footman seemed to consider this a good opportunity for repeating his
remark, with variations. "I shall sit here," he said, "on and off, for
days and days."

"But what am I to do?" said Alice.

"Anything you like," said the Footman, and began whistling.

"Oh, there's no use in talking to him," said Alice desperately: "he's
perfectly idiotic!" And she opened the door and went in.

The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of smoke from
one end to the other: the Duchess was sitting on a three-legged stool in
the middle, nursing a baby, the cook was leaning over the fire, stirring
a large cauldron which seemed to be full of soup.

"There's certainly too much pepper in that soup!" Alice said to herself,
as well as she could for sneezing.

There was certainly too much of it in the air. Even the Duchess sneezed
occasionally; and the baby was sneezing and howling alternately without
a moment's pause. The only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze,
were the cook, and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and
grinning from ear to ear.

"Please would you tell me," said Alice a little timidly, for she was not
quite sure whether it was good manners for her to speak first, "why your
cat grins like that?"

"It's a Cheshire cat," said the Duchess, "and that's why. Pig!"

She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice quite
jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed to the baby,
and not to her, so she took courage, and went on again:

"I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I didn't know
that cats could grin."

"They all can," said the Duchess; "and most of 'em do."

"I don't know of any that do," Alice said very politely, feeling quite
pleased to have got into a conversation.

"You don't know much," said the Duchess; "and that's a fact."

Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought it would
be as well to introduce some other subject of conversation. While she
was trying to fix on one, the cook took the cauldron of soup off the
fire, and at once set to work throwing everything within her reach at
the Duchess and the baby--the fire-irons came first; then followed a
shower of saucepans, plates, and dishes. The Duchess took no notice of
them even when they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already,
that it was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.

"Oh, please mind what you're doing!" cried Alice, jumping up and down
in an agony of terror. "Oh, there goes his precious nose"; as an
unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very nearly carried it
off.

"If everybody minded their own business," the Duchess said in a hoarse
growl, "the world would go round a deal faster than it does."

"Which would not be an advantage," said Alice, who felt very glad to
get an opportunity of showing off a little of her knowledge. "Just think
what work it would make with the day and night! You see the earth
takes twenty-four hours to turn round on its axis----"

"Talking of axes," said the Duchess, "chop off her head."
