Pokemon[a] (an abbreviation for Pocket Monsters[b] in Japan) is a Japanese media franchise managed by The Pokemon Company, a company founded by Nintendo, Game Freak, and Creatures. The franchise was created by Satoshi Tajiri in 1996, and is centered on fictional creatures called "Pokemon". In Pokemon, humans, known as Pokemon Trainers, catch and train Pokemon to battle other Pokemon for sport. All media works within the franchise are set in the Pokemon universe. The English slogan for the franchise is "Gotta Catch 'Em All!". There are currently 905 Pokemon species.

The franchise began as Pocket Monsters: Red and Green (later released outside of Japan as Pokemon Red and Blue), a pair of video games for the original Game Boy handheld system that were developed by Game Freak and published by Nintendo in February 1996. It soon became a media mix franchise adapted into various different media. Pokemon is estimated to be the highest-grossing media franchise of all time. The Pokemon video game series is the fourth best-selling video game franchise of all time with more than 380 million copies sold and one billion mobile downloads. The Pokemon video game series spawned an anime television series that has become the most successful video game adaptation of all time with over 20 seasons and 1,000 episodes in 183 countries. The Pokemon Trading Card Game is the highest-selling trading card game of all time with over 34.1 billion cards sold. In addition, the Pokemon franchise includes the world's top-selling toy brand, an anime film series, a live-action film (Detective Pikachu), books, manga comics, music, merchandise, and a temporary theme park. The franchise is also represented in other Nintendo media, such as the Super Smash Bros. series, where various Pokemon characters are playable.

History
Further information: Timeline of Pokemon
In 1998, Nintendo spent $25 million promoting Pokemon in the United States in partnership with Hasbro, KFC, and others. Nintendo initially feared that Pokemon was too Japanese for Western tastes but Alfred Kahn, then CEO of 4Kids Entertainment convinced the company otherwise. The one who spotted Pokemon's potential in the United States was Kahn's colleague Thomas Kenney.

In November 2005, 4Kids Entertainment, which had managed the non-game related licensing of Pokemon, announced that it had agreed not to renew the Pokemon representation agreement. The Pokemon Company International oversees all Pokemon licensing outside Asia. In 2006, the franchise celebrated its tenth anniversary. In 2016, the Pokemon Company celebrated Pokemon's 20th anniversary by airing an ad during Super Bowl 50 in January and re-releasing the first Pokemon video games 1996 Game Boy games Pokemon Red, Green (only in Japan), and Blue, and the 1998 Game Boy Color game Pokemon Yellow for the Nintendo 3DS on February 26, 2016. The mobile augmented reality game Pokemon Go was released in July 2016. The first live-action film in the franchise, Pokemon Detective Pikachu, based on the 2018 Nintendo 3DS spin-off game Detective Pikachu, was released in 2019. The eighth and current generation of core series games began with Pokemon Sword and Shield, released worldwide on the Nintendo Switch on November 15, 2019.

In celebration of its 25th anniversary in 2021, the core series games, Pokemon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl were released on November 19, 2021, and Pokemon Legends: Arceus will be released on January 28, 2022, both for the Nintendo Switch. They are remakes and a "premake" of the 2006 Nintendo DS games Pokemon Diamond and Pearl, respectively.

Name
The name Pokemon is a syllabic abbreviation of the Japanese brand Pocket Monsters. The term "Pokemon", in addition to referring to the Pokemon franchise itself, also collectively refers to the 905 fictional species that have made appearances in Pokemon media as of the release of the eighth generation titles Pokemon Sword and Shield. "Pokemon" is identical in the singular and plural, as is each individual species name; it is and would be grammatically correct to say "one Pokemon" and "many Pokemon", as well as "one Pikachu" and "many Pikachu".
